README.md, before:

# udacity-cloud-devops-project-capstone
This is the capstone project for Udacity DevOps Nanodegree.

## My CheatSheet

### Docker

```bash
sudo apt install docker.io
sudo usermod -a -G docker <username>

docker start <my_container_id or my_container_name>
docker stop <my_container_id or my_container_name>
```

### Kubernetes
[kubectl Cheat Sheet - Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/)

```bash
kubectl config view # check all Merged kubeconfig settings, which shows which Kubernetes cluster kubectl communicates with.
kubectl config use-context my_cluster_name # switch between clusters
kubectl config current-context # display the current-context

kubectl get all # check all resources in the cluster, including pods, services, deployments

kubectl delete pod <my_pod_name>
```

Minikube - local cluster
```bash
kubectl config use-context minikube
minikube start

# try out
kubectl apply -f deployment/deployment.yaml # contains a service+deployment
kubectl get all
minikube service udacity-devops-capstone

kubectl delete -f deployment/deployment.yaml

```

### Jenkins

- install Jenkins 
  - https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jenkins-on-ubuntu-18-04 
  ```bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt install -y default-jdk
  wget -q -O - https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io.key | sudo apt-key add -
  sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ > \
      /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install jenkins

  sudo systemctl start jenkins
  ```

- Add a new Pipeline
  - https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/tour/hello-world/

- Add Plugins
  - in order to use docker agent, plugins need to be added.
  - dashboard --> Manage Jenkins --> Manage Plugins

- Troubleshooting:
  - Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon
    ```bash
    sudo chmod 777 /var/run/docker.sock
    ```

## Project Steps

### Containerize the application

1. You need to identify the application that you're going to use. It is a good idea to use one of the applications from the previous projects of this Nanodegree.
2. Build a Docker file to containerize the application.
3. Test the docker file in docker and make sure that it works.

### Create a kubernetes deployment and test it locally with minikube.

1. Now that you have a containerized application with the Docker file, build the image and push it to dockerhub.
2. Create our deployment file that is going to use the image that is in docker hub.
3. Create a service that makes the containers publicly accessible.
4. Create a cluster locally using minikube.
5. [Deploy the service and the deployment to the closer locally and test that the application works](https://youtu.be/WeWv2Htb1-g).

### Create a Jenkins pipeline that:

1. lints

2. builds the docker image

3. push the image to dockerhub

4. deploy the containers to the kubernetes cluster

This [tutorial](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-install-docker-aws-cli-eksctl-kubectl-for-jenkins-in-linux-ubuntu-18-04-3e3c4ceeb71) is going to be useful for creating installing jenkins.

Create the kubernetes cluster in aws.

You can do it with [eksctl](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-eksctl.html) and it is the official eks. This tool is great for deploying cluster to AWS and it uses CloudFormation. It will simplify and speed up the process.

### Run the Jenkins pipeline.


## References
- [Capstone, Cloud DevOps Nanodegree FAQ](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/capstone-cloud-devops-nanodegree-4493ab439d48)
- [Jenkins pipeline for blue green deployment using AWS EKS — Kubernetes — Docker](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/jenkins-pipeline-for-blue-green-deployment-using-aws-eks-kubernetes-docker-7e5d6a401021?source=your_stories_page---------------------------)
- [Simple blue-green deployment in kubernetes using minikube](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/simple-blue-green-deployment-in-kubernetes-using-minikube-b88907b2e267?source=your_stories_page---------------------------)
- [How to install docker, aws cli, eksctl, kubectl for Jenkins in Linux Ubuntu 18.04?](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-install-docker-aws-cli-eksctl-kubectl-for-jenkins-in-linux-ubuntu-18-04-3e3c4ceeb71)
- [How to configure and execute a rolling update strategy in kubernetes?](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-configure-and-execute-a-rolling-update-strategy-in-kubernetes-5e662be968b)
- [Capstone Process Flow](https://knowledge.udacity.com/questions/364415#364440)

Commit message:

build: set environment to HOME to solve non-root user issue

README.md, after:

# udacity-cloud-devops-project-capstone
This is the capstone project for Udacity DevOps Nanodegree.

## My CheatSheet

### Docker

```bash
sudo apt install docker.io
sudo usermod -a -G docker <username>

docker start <my_container_id or my_container_name>
docker stop <my_container_id or my_container_name>
```

### Kubernetes
[kubectl Cheat Sheet - Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/)

```bash
kubectl config view # check all Merged kubeconfig settings, which shows which Kubernetes cluster kubectl communicates with.
kubectl config use-context my_cluster_name # switch between clusters
kubectl config current-context # display the current-context

kubectl get all # check all resources in the cluster, including pods, services, deployments

kubectl delete pod <my_pod_name>
```

Minikube - local cluster
```bash
kubectl config use-context minikube
minikube start

# try out
kubectl apply -f deployment/deployment.yaml # contains a service+deployment
kubectl get all
minikube service udacity-devops-capstone

kubectl delete -f deployment/deployment.yaml

```

### Jenkins

- install Jenkins 
  - https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jenkins-on-ubuntu-18-04 
  ```bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt install -y default-jdk
  wget -q -O - https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io.key | sudo apt-key add -
  sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ > \
      /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install jenkins

  sudo systemctl start jenkins
  ```

- Add a new Pipeline
  - https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/tour/hello-world/

- Add Plugins
  - in order to use docker agent, plugins need to be added.
  - dashboard --> Manage Jenkins --> Manage Plugins

- Troubleshooting:
  - Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon
    ```bash
    sudo chmod 777 /var/run/docker.sock
    ```

  - Your cache folder contains root-owned files, due to a bug in previous versions of npm which has since been addressed.
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42743201/npm-install-fails-in-jenkins-pipeline-in-docker
    ```
    // add this in your Jenkinsfile
    environment {
        HOME = '.'
    } 
    ```

## Project Steps

### Containerize the application

1. You need to identify the application that you're going to use. It is a good idea to use one of the applications from the previous projects of this Nanodegree.
2. Build a Docker file to containerize the application.
3. Test the docker file in docker and make sure that it works.

### Create a kubernetes deployment and test it locally with minikube.

1. Now that you have a containerized application with the Docker file, build the image and push it to dockerhub.
2. Create our deployment file that is going to use the image that is in docker hub.
3. Create a service that makes the containers publicly accessible.
4. Create a cluster locally using minikube.
5. [Deploy the service and the deployment to the closer locally and test that the application works](https://youtu.be/WeWv2Htb1-g).

### Create a Jenkins pipeline that:

1. lints

2. builds the docker image

3. push the image to dockerhub

4. deploy the containers to the kubernetes cluster

This [tutorial](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-install-docker-aws-cli-eksctl-kubectl-for-jenkins-in-linux-ubuntu-18-04-3e3c4ceeb71) is going to be useful for creating installing jenkins.

### Create the kubernetes cluster in aws.

You can do it with [eksctl](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-eksctl.html) and it is the official eks. This tool is great for deploying cluster to AWS and it uses CloudFormation. It will simplify and speed up the process.

## References
- [Capstone, Cloud DevOps Nanodegree FAQ](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/capstone-cloud-devops-nanodegree-4493ab439d48)
- [Jenkins pipeline for blue green deployment using AWS EKS — Kubernetes — Docker](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/jenkins-pipeline-for-blue-green-deployment-using-aws-eks-kubernetes-docker-7e5d6a401021?source=your_stories_page---------------------------)
- [Simple blue-green deployment in kubernetes using minikube](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/simple-blue-green-deployment-in-kubernetes-using-minikube-b88907b2e267?source=your_stories_page---------------------------)
- [How to install docker, aws cli, eksctl, kubectl for Jenkins in Linux Ubuntu 18.04?](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-install-docker-aws-cli-eksctl-kubectl-for-jenkins-in-linux-ubuntu-18-04-3e3c4ceeb71)
- [How to configure and execute a rolling update strategy in kubernetes?](https://medium.com/@andresaaap/how-to-configure-and-execute-a-rolling-update-strategy-in-kubernetes-5e662be968b)
- [Capstone Process Flow](https://knowledge.udacity.com/questions/364415#364440)
